2025-11-14
AgentEvolver: Towards Efficient Self-Evolving Agent System
Yunpeng Zhai∗, Shuchang Tao∗, Cheng Chen∗, Anni Zou∗, Ziqian Chen∗, Qingxu Fu∗,
Shinji Mai∗, Li Yu, Jiaji Deng, Zouying Cao, Zhaoyang Liu†, Bolin Ding†, Jingren Zhou
Tongyi Lab
 , Alibaba Group
{zhaiyunpeng.zyp, taoshuchang.tsc, chengchen, zouanni.zan, eric.czq,
fuqingxu.fqx, jingmu.lzy, bolin.ding}@alibaba-inc.com
https://github.com/modelscope/AgentEvolver
Abstract
Autonomous agents powered by large language models (LLMs) have the poten-
tial to significantly enhance human productivity by reasoning, using tools, and
executing complex tasks in diverse environments. However, current approaches
to developing such agents remain costly and inefficient, as they typically require
manually constructed task datasets and reinforcement learning (RL) pipelines
with extensive random exploration. These limitations lead to prohibitively high
data-construction costs, low exploration efficiency, and poor sample utilization.
To address these challenges, we present AgentEvolver , a self-evolving agent
system that leverages the semantic understanding and reasoning capabilities
of LLMs to drive autonomous agent learning. AgentEvolver introduces three
synergistic mechanisms: (i) self-questioning , which enables curiosity-driven
task generation in novel environments, reducing dependence on handcrafted
datasets; (ii) self-navigating , which improves exploration efficiency through
experience reuse and hybrid policy guidance; and (iii) self-attributing , which
enhances sample efficiency by assigning differentiated rewards to trajectory
states and actions based on their contribution. By integrating these mechanisms
into a unified framework, AgentEvolver enables scalable, cost-effective, and
continual improvement of agent capabilities. Preliminary experiments indicate
that AgentEvolver achieves more efficient exploration, better sample utilization,
and faster adaptation compared to traditional RL-based baselines.
103050
20040
7B14B30B100B235BModelSizeQwen2.5-32BQwen3-32BQwen3-235B-A22BQwen3-30B-A3BQwen2.5-14BAgentEvolver-14B
Qwen2.5-7BQwen3-8B
AppWorld
3050
2040
7B14B30B100B235BModelSizeQwen2.5-32BQwen3-32BQwen3-235B-A22B
Qwen3-30B-A3BQwen2.5-14BQwen2.5-7BQwen3-8B
BFCLv36070Qwen3-14BQwen3-14BAgentEvolver-14BAgentEvolver-7BAgentEvolver-14BAgentEvolver-7BTask Goal Completion(%)
Task Goal Completion (%)
Figure 1: Performance comparison on the AppWorld and BFCL-v3 benchmarks. AgentEvolver
achieves superior results while using substantially fewer parameters than larger baseline models.
∗Equal contribution.
†Corresponding authors.
1arXiv:2511.10395v1  [cs.LG]  13 Nov 2025

1 Introduction
The rapid progress of artificial intelligence (AI) and large language models (LLMs) (Liu et al., 2024; Team,
2025) has opened new opportunities for developing autonomous agents capable of tool use, reasoning,
and task execution in complex environments. Such agents promise to significantly enhance human
productivity by automatically interacting with digital systems and real-world platforms (Yao et al., 2023;
Ding et al., 2025; Qu et al., 2025). Broadly, the development of agent systems follows two paradigms.
One relies on workflow-based orchestration, where developers manually design action sequences or
tool-calling rules (Du et al., 2024; Cui et al., 2025b). The other is learning-based optimization, where
agents adapt their policies from feedback and interaction (Li et al., 2025; Chang et al., 2025). Among
learning-based approaches, reinforcement learning (RL) has emerged as a central direction (Zhang et al.,
2025b), offering a principled way to endow agents with adaptive, generalizable behaviors.
Despite this promise, RL-driven agent development remains challenging in practice, especially when
adapting to novel environments (Wang & Huang, 2025; Zhang et al., 2025a). First, the construction of
training tasks tailored for RL is prohibitively expensive. In novel environments, tool functionalities
are often unknown, and manually creating tasks with sufficiently diverse trajectories is labor-intensive.
Second, existing RL methods for LLM-based agents suffer from severe sample inefficiency. Although the
RL community has proposed various exploration strategies such as intrinsic rewards (Cui et al., 2025a)
and UCB-based bandit methods (Song et al., 2025), these techniques are often ineffective for long-horizon,
tool-augmented agents, where each rollout is computationally and financially expensive. As a result,
current LLM agent training still primarily adopts PPO- or GRPO-style policy optimization (DeepSeek-AI,
2024), whose reliance on massive trajectory sampling leads to approximate brute-force exploration with
many redundant rollouts and limited learning value. Consequently, the training of LLM agents remains
a laborious and costly paradigm.
Motivated by the rapidly growing semantic understanding and reasoning capabilities of LLMs, a natural
question arises:why not entrust the model itself with greater autonomy in driving its own learning
process?Instead of relying on rigid, human-engineered pipelines, we envision an agent system where the
LLM actively guides exploration, task generation, and performance refinement. To this end, we propose
AgentEvolver , a self-evolving agent system designed to achieve autonomous and efficient capability
evolution through environmental interaction. By harnessing the strengths of LLMs, AgentEvolver
establishes a self-training loop that continuously improves agent competence through direct environment
interaction.
Specifically, AgentEvolver aligns with the typical training flow—i)from environments to tasks, ii)from tasks
to trajectories, and iii)from trajectories to agent policy. As illustrated in Figure 2, this self-evolution process
comprises three synergistic mechanisms:self-questioning,self-navigating, andself-attributing:
•Self-questioning :enables curiosity-driven exploration, allowing the LLM to autonomously
generate tasks by probing the environment’s state-action space and discovering functional
boundaries. This mechanism reduces dependence on costly handcrafted datasets.
•Self-navigating :improves exploration efficiency by reusing and generalizing from past experi-
ences. Through hybrid policy learning and trajectory guidance, the agent achieves more targeted
and efficient task completion.
•Self-attributing :enhances sample efficiency by allocating fine-grained rewards along long
trajectories. Instead of uniformly attributing outcomes as in typical GRPO methods, the LLM
infers the respective contribution of intermediate states and actions, enabling more fine-grained
and effective learning.
Together, these mechanisms constitute an integrated framework for agent self-evolution, systematically
addressing the challenges of task scarcity, inefficient exploration, and low sample utilization. By shifting
the training initiative from human-engineered pipelines to LLM-guided self-improvement, AgentEvolver
establishes a new paradigm that paves the way toward scalable, cost-effective, and continually improving
intelligent systems.
Beyond the conceptual framework, we further introduce a practical infrastructure with a set of developer-
oriented features. In particular, it ensuresenvironmental compatibilitythrough standardized interfaces,
enabling seamless interaction with diverse external environments. A unifiedContext Managerthen
controls the agent’s multi-turn interaction logic under a consistent interface. It also integrates with
reinforcement learning infrastructures such as veRL (Sheng et al., 2024), supporting efficient policy opti-
mization and parameter updates. Moreover, the modular architecture facilitates secondary development:
individual components can be optimized, extended, or redesigned to meet evolving research and applica-
tion demands. In this way, AgentEvolver serves both as a methodological contribution and as a practical
foundation for building the next generation of self-evolving agent systems.
2

Self-QuestioningSelf-NavigatingSelf-AttributingEnvironmentTaskTrajectoryPolicy
Self-Attributing
Attribution Outcome IntegrationAttribution:𝒓!"!!#=+𝟏−𝟏Normalization&𝒓!"!!#OutcomeReward𝒓$%!!𝒓!=𝛼!𝒓!"!!#+𝛿!$%!𝒓&'!
𝑨!=(()!!𝒓(Normalization&𝒓$%!Step-levelAttributionTask
Reward
TrajectoryGOODBAD
&𝒓&&𝒓'&𝒓(&𝒓)AdvantageComputationCombinedReward
AccumulativeCombinedRewardStep-levelAdvantage&𝒓'&𝒓(&𝒓)&𝒓(&𝒓)&𝒓)BroadcasttoToken-levelAdvantage
Trajectory
GOODGOOD
CombinedReward
Attribution
GOODBAD
Policy
𝑨&𝑨'𝑨(𝑨)
AvailableTools
EnvironmentProfileEnvironment Exploration
Task SynthesisTask CurationExplorationTrajectoryUserPref.difficultystyle+SummarizeTask
QueryReference Trajectory
Reference Trajectory
Replay SuccessfullyFeasible Task
QueryReference Trajectory
UnreachableFailCuriosity-Driven Exploration
ExplorationTrajectory
Task Draft
Task
Env.
Experience AcquisitionExperience-mixed RolloutExperience Pool
w/ Exp 1
Experience-guided
Historical Trials 
ConstructRetrieve
Experience-free
w/ Exp 2w/ Exp 3
w/o Expw/o ExpExperience IncorporationP(trajectory|task)Trajectories w/ exp masked
…
Optimize
Exp 1Exp 2Exp 3
Task
Experience
Trajectory
Enhance
Figure 2: Overview of the AgentEvolver framework. The self-evolving process is driven by three syner-
gistic mechanisms: Self-questioning for autonomous task generation, Self-navigating for experience-
guided exploration, andSelf-attributingfor fine-grained credit assignment.
In the following sections, we first introduce the problem formulation of this work in Section 2. We then
present the three core mechanisms of the proposed framework: Section 3 presents the self-questioning
module for curiosity-driven task generation; Section 4 details the self-navigating strategy for efficient
exploration; and Section 5 explains the self-attributing mechanism for fine-grained credit assignment.
Section 6 then describes the supporting infrastructure. We evaluate the effectiveness of AgentEvolver in
Section 7, and finally conclude the report in Section 8 by summarizing the key findings and discussing
future research directions.
2 Problem Formulation
To establish a rigorous foundation foragent self-evolution, we formalize the learning problem as enabling
an LLM-based agent to autonomously improve its policy through interaction with the environment—
without relying on predefined task distributions or reward functions. Our approach conceptually separates this
problem into two components: (1) an interaction sandbox E, which defines the environment dynamics
(states, actions) but provides no objectives, and (2) an unknown target task distribution ptarget(g), rep-
resenting the ‘golden’ tasks the agent must ultimately master. The core challenge is thus for the agent
to leverage open-ended exploration in Eto effectively estimate ptarget(g), and in turn, autonomously
generate its own proxy training objectives (tasks) and learning signals (rewards) to guide continual
improvement. We now formally define these components.
Environment FormulationTo distinguish our setting from standard RL environments, we define an
interaction sandboxthat specifies the agent’s accessible state space, action space, and transition dynamics,
but does not provide any predefined reward function or task objective. Formally, the interaction sandbox
is represented as:
E= (S,A,P), (1)
where Sdenotes the set of observable states, Athe set of executable actions, and P(s′|s,a)the transition
probability distribution governing the environment dynamics. Unlike a standard MDP environment
E= (S ,A,P,r,γ), the interaction sandbox Eexcludes the reward function ras well as the discount factor
γ, reflecting an open-ended, non-rewarding setting in which the agent must autonomously generate its
own learning signals and objectives to drive continual policy improvement.
3

Target Task Space and Oracle RewardThe agent is ultimately evaluated on a target task distribution
ptarget(g)over tasks g∈ G , where Gdenotes the task space. Each task gis associated with a desired goal
state sg∈ S, representing a desired terminal state or outcome (e.g., a correct calculation, a retrieved fact,
or a completed workflow). Intuitively, executing a task gmeans steering the environment from an initial
state toward its corresponding goal states g.
For each task g, a ground-truth reward function Rg(s,a)measures the utility of taking action ain state
swith respect to achieving the goal sg. Starting from an initial state s0∼p 0, the agent aims to learn a
goal-conditioned policy πθ(a|s ,g)that maximizes the expected return across the target task distribution:
Jtarget(θ) =E g∼p target ,s0∼p0[Vπθ(s0,g)], (2)
where the goal-conditioned value function follows the standard formulation (Schaul et al., 2015; Liu et al.,
2022):
Vπθ(s0,g) =E"
∞
∑
t=0γtRg(st,at)s0,g,π θ#
, (3)
which generalizes value estimation across both environmental states and goal-conditioned tasks.
Proxy Objective of Self-EvolutionSince the target task distribution and reward functions are unknown
a priori, the agent must synthesize its own training tasks and reward signals through formal generation
mechanisms:
•Proxy Task Generation:The agent explores the environment via a self-questioning mechanism
(Section 3) to produce a candidate set of solvable tasks Gcandidate . This process can be formalized
as a mapping from the environment to a task distribution:
Ftask:E →∆(G), wherep train=F task(E)(4)
The resulting distribution ptrain(g)emphasizes tasks of appropriate difficulty and diversity,
emulating the unknownp target(g).
•Proxy Reward Design:The agent infers a proxy reward function through self-attributing
(Section 5), formalized as a mapping from environment and tasks to reward functions:
Freward :E × G →(S × A →R), where ˆRg=F reward (E,g)(5)
This enables finer-grained credit assignment than sparse environment rewards, allowing the
agent to learn from richer feedback without human intervention.
The core objective of self-evolution is to formulate and optimize Ftaskand Freward functions such that
maximizing the proxy training objective:
Jtrain(θ) =Eg∼F task(E)ˆVπθ(s0,g)
, (6)
with
ˆVπθ(s0,g) =E"
∞
∑
t=0γtFreward (E,g)(s t,at)s0,g,π θ#
(7)
leads to the improvement of the true target objective in Eq. 2. Moreover, it optimizes exploration through
a self-navigating mechanism, guiding πθto generate high-learning-value trajectories and addressing
efficiency bottlenecks in multi-turn environments.
In other words, this manuscript aims to formulate Ftaskand Freward through systematic methodological
development such that the policy πθoptimized under the proxy tasks and rewards performs well on
the true target task distribution. This formulation establishes a systematic framework where the agent’s
self-improvement is guided by carefully formulated task and reward generation mechanisms as well as
efficient learning methods.
3 Self-Questioning
In agent self-evolution, the adaptation process can be characterized as policy optimization over trajectories
under proxy-generated tasks and rewards. Consequently, the quality of the self-synthesized tasks directly
influences the effectiveness of policy improvement and its eventual transfer to the true target tasks.
However, in practical settings, acquiring training tasks of high quality remains challenging (Kang et al.,
2025; Villalobos et al., 2024). The difficulties mainly arise from two factors: i) Absence of training data
in new environments: Most environments lack predefined data suitable for training, and manually
4

ActionDifficultyStyleRubrics
Walk in Environment123ObservationActionObservationActionObservationAgentTrajectoryUser Pref.
____Ref. SolutionI have asandboxenvironment.There are locations and facilities on map...
What potentialproblemscan this solve?
Query & Solution are feasible
__Query____Ref. Solution
__Query____Ref. Solution
……Environment ProfileUser Preference
Try Replaying
+ DuplicationFilter+ User-Defined Filter
Plan path to go back home ?
①Exploration②Task Synthesis③ Task Curation
Self-QuestioningFigure 3: The pipeline of self-questioning module, includingexploration,task synthesis, andtask curation.
Initially, the module performs an exploratory phase across environments, which is directed by both
environment profiles and user preferences (detailed in Section 3.1). The generated trajectories are
analyzed to formulate potential queries alongside their associated reference solutions. Next, we involve
an agent that replays this path to verify the feasibility.
constructing multi-step, complex tasks for agent learning is costly (Tang et al., 2025). ii) Low quality of
training data: Available data frequently suffer from restricted diversity and skewed distributions, which
constrain the agent’s capacity to develop general and robust capabilities (Chen et al., 2024).
To address these challenges and enable agents to continually self-optimize across diverse environ-
ments, we propose a self-questioning mechanism , which serves as the instantiation of the proxy
task generation function Ftaskand synthetic rewards. As shown in Figure 3, it implements a general
exploration-generation pipeline to transform the sandbox Einto exploration trajectories, and ultimately
into user-preferred tasks, leveraging them to bootstrap self-evolution. The self-questioning module
tries to answer four main problems in data generation:
1. How to understand an unknown environment and find valuable states in it? (Section 3.1)
2.How to generate the tasks aligned with user preferences while maintaining sufficient diversity to
cover heterogeneous demands? (Section 3.2)
3. How to avoid hallucinations and guarantee the task executability? (Section 3.3)
4.How to provide proxy reward signals that evaluate agent performance at the trajectory level?
(Section 3.4)
By tackling these problems, the proposed module facilitates the co-evolution of tasks and agents, thereby
progressively unlocking the agent’s potential.
3.1 Curiosity-Guided Exploration with Environment Profiles
To effectively bootstrap synthetic tasks and enable agents to evolve corresponding abilities in a new
environment, it is crucial to first develop a structured understanding of the unknown environment. To
achieve that, we introduce curiosity-guided exploration withenvironment profiles. The agent leverages
these profiles to direct its curiosity-driven behaviors towards promising regions of the environment,
explore diverse actions and states, and uncover the latent intentions in them.
Environment Profiles as Action PriorsComplex environments that agents are often involved in, e.g.,
browsers and editors, contain a wide variety of actions and states. However, users typically interact with
only a subset that aligns with their specific tasks or preferences. To effectively acquire the relevant abilities
to handle these problems, we capture such regularities throughenvironment profiles, which summarize
entities, their attributes, and supported operations at the desired level of granularity.
5

An example ofEnvironment Profile
Entity: Map
a game map with navigable roads and several points of interest, including a hospital,
school, factory, home (or houses), and traffic lights.
Attributes:
- road: a traversable pathway.
- architecture: a structure (e.g., hospital, school, home, or factory).
- traffic light: a signal requiring agents to wait before crossing.
Operation:
- move: move to an adjacent location.
- wait andcross: wait for the signal to change and cross the intersection.
- enter: enter the nearest building.
Figure 4: An example ofenvironment profileof the sandbox in Figure 3. The elements in the map are
represented by entities and attributes, while the operations enumerate possible conceptual actions for
agents to build a fundamental understanding.
During exploration, profiles serve as part of the initial state s0and help the LLM focus its curiosity and
avoid aimless walking.
LLM-Driven Stochastic ExplorationWe employ a high-temperature LLM as the primary source of
curiosity. The elevated temperature encourages the agent to discover unconventional interaction patterns
and hidden environment states, generating diverse and creative actions. At each step of exploration, the
LLM observes the environment, thinks for the goals and options, and outputs an action to interact with
the environment.
Formally, given the initial state s0. At each step t, the agent samples an action from a profile-guided,
high-temperature policy and then transitions according to environment dynamics:
at∼π explore (· |s t,st−1,st−2, . . . ,s 0),s t+1∼ P(· |s t,at), (8)
yielding a trajectoryτ= (s 0,a0, . . . ,s T)with distributionρ(τ).
During the exploration, we implement a two-phase exploration strategy to balance the efficiency with step
allocation and myopic decision. During the initial Nbsteps, the agent conducts breadth-first exploration
to establish a naive understanding of the environment’s basic semantics, ensuring coverage of diverse
regions of the action-state space. Subsequently, the agent transitions to depth-first exploration for more
focused investigation of promising trajectories discovered earlier. In this second phase, we further
prevent premature convergence to a single behavior pattern by enforcing a myopic decision-making rule.
Concretely, the agent only considers the most recentN dobservations ins t,st−1, . . . ,s t−N d+1.
Through the aforementioned mechanism, we establish a transformation from the environment Eto a
distribution over trajectories. This process is guided by the LLM-driven stochastic policy πexplore , which
can be formalized as
Φ:E ×π× S → T, whereρ=Φ(E,π explore ,s0), (9)
where Tdenotes the set of trajectories, ρ(τ) is explored with πexplore inE, and s0concludes the environ-
ment profile.
3.2 Adaptive Task Synthesis
Having understood the environment through curiosity-guided exploration, in this section, the next
step involves synthesizing training tasks that leverage the discovered environment capabilities. To
achieve that, we propose adaptive task synthesis, which transforms the explored trajectories into tasks
by combining the trajectory with user preferences to generate potential corresponding queries, and
generating a reference solution based on the action-observation pairs.
Preference Guided Task SynthesisA key challenge in task synthesis is ensuring alignment with user
preferences. To this end, we utilizeuser preferencesto provide structured guidance, constraining the
task domain along two primary axes: task difficulty and task style. Task difficulty is quantified by the
number of entities, attributes, and operations involved in potential solutions. We adaptively control this
by hierarchically scaling these factors. For instance, operations requiring coordination across multiple
attributes are considered complex, while those involving few are simple. In addition to difficulty, our
pipeline accepts user-defined rubrics to specify stylistic preferences, ensuring tasks reflect user demands.
6

This synthesis process initiates by processing raw exploration trajectories ρ. These trajectories are
first distilled to extract salient interaction components: user inputs, LLM-generated actions, and their
execution results. This distilled information is then augmented with the user preferences uand provided
to an LLM, which analyzes the context to synthesize a candidate query galigned with the desired
constraints.
Formally, the transformation from experience to structured tasks through a preference-guided synthesis
function is
Ψ:T × U → G, whereg=Ψ (ρ,u)∼p train, (10)
where Udenotes the space of user preferences u. By composing ΦandΨ, we transform the environment
Einto its corresponding tasks Gand implement Ftask(E) =Ψ(Φ(E) ,u), which yields the training task g
that satisfies distributionp train.
Reference Solution ExtractionAn essential part of our task synthesis is the extraction of reliable
reference solutions. For problems posed in an unexplored environment, the ability of the agent would
determine whether it could obtain a solution. In ourself-questioningmechanism, however, problems
are generated after exploration. This decoupling implies that an agent is presented with tasks whose
solutions lie well beyond its current capability, and the correct answers are discoverable through the
prior exploration phase. We leverage this property by designating these solutions as proxy ground-truth,
i.e. reference solutions, which is shown in Figure 3. First, the explored trajectory is condensed into a
simplified action-observation format. Then, this simplified trajectory and its corresponding task are
provided to a prompted LLM to extract the complete solution process, ultimately yielding the reference
solution. This solution encompasses all key steps required to solve the task.
By comparing the agent’s predictions against the reference, we can robustly check correctness and provide
targeted supervision. In this way, we produce tasks of controlled difficulty and style, and ensure the
availability of trustworthy solutions.
3.3 Task Curation and Distributional Hybrid
Since Ftask(E)produces a proxy task distribution ptrain(g), the resulting samples inevitably vary in quality
and difficulty. A systematic filtering mechanism is required to refine this distribution and ensure that
ptrain better emulates the unknown ptarget . To address the challenges, we propose a multi-layer filtering
pipeline that evaluates the tasks across multiple dimensions during and after synthesis.
Real-time FilteringDuring the task synthesis, the real-time filtering is applied to prevent the low-quality
tasks. It operates on two primary criteria to avoid duplications. We first employ lexical overlap-based
deduplication to eliminate redundant tasks. We compute token-level similarity scores between newly
generated tasks and existing ones. Tasks exceeding a predefined threshold are immediately discarded
in the early stage. The lexical filtering provides a computationally efficient first line of defense against
redundancy. Next, semantic similarity-based check is introduced to further steer from duplicate tasks.
Using embedding models, we maintain the representation of all existing tasks and guide the generation
process to avoid similar trajectories.
Post-generation FilteringAfter the initial synthesis and real-time filtering, we apply the post-filtering to
ensure task quality and feasibility. This stage employs a more sophisticated evaluation. The post-filtering
begins with the lexical deduplication, similar to the one in real-time filtering. Subsequently, we conduct a
feasibility assessment to strictly verify task executability within the target environment. This evaluation
leverages reference solutions obtained during the task synthesis phase and attempts to execute the
solutions against the environment. By identifying real execution failures, potential mismatches between
task requirements and environment, we effectively flag and remove synthetic tasks where the reference
solution is likely hallucinatory.
Distributional Hybrid (Optional)In the default setting of interest where no external data are available,
the agent relies entirely on proxy tasks, i.e.,
ptrain(g) =F task(E)(g). (11)
Considering the superiority of mixed data in maintaining stable capabilities and expanding performance
boundaries, if samples from the true target distribution ptarget are available, we instead consider a hybrid
distribution:
phybrid (g) = (1−λ)p target(g) +λp task(g), (12)
withλ∈(0, 1]controlling the contribution of proxy tasks.
7

3.4 Synthetic Task Reward with LLM Judge
The synthesis of tasks serves as the initial step in our self-questioning module. Following this, we
immediately face the second challenge: reliable task reward, which is necessary for guiding agent
improvement. The difficulty is further acute in complex scenarios due to the lack of ground-truth rewards.
We address this challenge by developing a reward module and providing our general reference-based
LLM judge for common automated assessment of task completion quality.
LLM as a JudgeThe LLM Judge is a broadly validated solution for self-evaluation; however, designing
one for long interaction trajectories remains a challenge. To accommodate developers, we offer an
LLM-based judge as a fallback proxy for Freward , providing general-purpose assessment across diverse
environments without specific optimizations but with agentic abilities. Our reward module ensures both
generality and practicality for users to adopt their own environment rewards.
Basic PrincipleTo better assess a long-term trajectory, our LLM judge follows two principle to carefully
assign rewards:
i)Relevance and Repetition Checkserves as the primary guard, identifying trajectories that contain steps
unrelated to the target task, and all hallucinated or redundant steps. Agents that exhibit those behaviors
without clear justification receive zero scores immediately.
ii)Continuous Scoringprovides nuanced assessment beyond binary success metrics. Correct solutions
receive scores in high range, while incorrect attempts fall within low range, with the specific score
determined by factors such as step efficiency and intermediate errors. This graduated scoring captures
partial progress and provides informative feedback for agent improvement.
Reference-based Correctness CheckRather than relying solely on LLM knowledge to assess agents,
our judge leverages reference solutions obtained in the exploration phase. It compares agent trajectories
against reference solutions to verify coverage of essential steps. The evaluation checks whether all critical
steps in the reference solutions appear in the agent’s execution, either directly or through functionally
equivalent alternatives.
This method allows us to maintain an objective standard for rewarding. Experimental validation of the
effectiveness is presented in Section 7.3.
4 Self-Navigating
Efficient exploration in complex environments remains a central challenge for autonomous agents (Lu
et al., 2024; Qiao et al., 2024). Conventional RL approaches often rely on repetitive and random trial-
and-error, resulting in redundant trajectories and slow convergence (Burda et al., 2018). In contrast,
human learning excels at extracting knowledge from past failures and systematically applying it to future
endeavors. Motivated by this observation, we present a self-navigating mechanism that integrates
experience reuse, trajectory guidance, and hybrid policy learning to improveexploration efficiency.
Self-navigating enables agents to internalize and exploit prior experiences, thereby shifting exploration
from unguided trial-and-error toward a more structured and scalable self-improvement process.
An example ofexperiencefor AppWorld
When to use:
When attempting to use an API that hasn’t been explicitly confirmed to exist or
function as expected.
Content:
Always verify the existence and behavior of an API through its specifications (using
apis.api docs.show apidoc) before executing calls, especially for critical actions
like deletions or modifications.
Figure 5: An example ofexperiencefor AppWorld, consisting of two components:When to useandContent.
Notion of ExperienceIn the context of agent self-evolution, anexperienceencapsulates distilled insights
derived from past trajectories, encompassing both successful and unsuccessful cases. In our setting, we
formalize anexperienceas a unit of structured knowledge articulated in natural language, designed to
guide agents toward appropriate decisions through In-Context Learning (ICL). Eachexperiencecomprises
8

A<0A>0A<0query
trajectorynullnullnullexptrajectoryA>0trajectoryA>0trajectoryA<0
expexpExperience-free RolloutsExperience-guided Rollouts
② Experience-mixed Rollout③Experience IncorporationnulltrajectorynulltrajectorytrajectorytrajectoryexpexpA<0A>0A>0A>0
IfexpA>0
clip higher!&Experience Strippingquery
PolicyModel
Experience Incorporationtrajectorytrajectory① Experience Acquisition
Whenexportingdatatoafile…WheninteractingwithAPIs…Whenneedingtoretrieve…
Experience Pool
experiences
recallrerankrewrite
…TrainingSamplesFigure 6: The pipeline of self-navigating mechanism. It comprises three key stages: (i)Experience
Acquisition, where the agent constructs and retrieves structured natural-language experiences distilled
from prior trajectories; (ii)Experience-mixed Rollout, which interleaves unguided and experience-guided
trajectories to balance exploration and exploitation; and (iii)Experience Incorporation, which integrates
retrieved experiences into the policy optimization process.
two components:When to useandContent. TheWhen to usecomponent specifies the conditions under
which the experience is applicable and serves as a retrieval trigger, with queries semantically matching
to its vectorized embedding. TheContentcomponent provides detailed instructions, precautions, or
recommended strategies for effective action within that context. Representing experiences entirely in
natural language preserves interpretability while supporting scalable, embedding-based retrieval.
4.1 Experience Acquisition
To enable effective experience reuse, we introduce anexperience acquisitionstage that spans both offline
and online phases. In the offline phase, thePool Constructionprocess builds a diverse and well-structured
repository of high-quality experiences. During the online phase (i.e., rollout or inference), theExperience
Retrievalprocess dynamically draws task-specific knowledge from this repository to provide contextually
relevant guidance. Together, these two processes ensure that prior trajectories can be utilized effectively
by constructing experiences while preserving adaptability across diverse tasks *.
Pool ConstructionTo construct a cold-start experience pool Pexpfor environment Eusing the proxy
task distribution ptrain (derived from the self-questioning module in Section 3), we proceed as follows.
For each task gsampled from ptrain, the initial policy πθinitperforms Npcindependent rollouts in E,
producing a set of trajectories. Each trajectory set then undergoes through a processing pipeline Ωprocess ,
which consists of the following key stages: (1)trajectory preprocessing, where collected trajectories are
validated and classified into success and failure groups according to their scores; (2)experience extraction,
where task memories are distilled from successful, failed, or comparative trajectory pairs, capturing
essential behavioral insights; (3)experience validation, which employs an LLM-based evaluator to assess
the quality and reliability of each extracted experience; and (4)vector store updating, where validated task
experiences are indexed and integrated into the long-term experience storage for subsequent retrieval
and reasoning. The final experience pool Pexp is obtained by aggregating the processed trajectory sets
across all sampled tasks, formally defined as:
Pexp=[
g∼p trainΩprocessn
τ(g)
ioNpc
i=1
, whereτ(g)
i∼π θinit(· | E,g). (13)
Experience RetrievalGiven a task g, we extract its associated query qand encode it into an embedding
vector hq. Each experience e∈ P expis represented similarly by an embedding he. The similarity between
hqand all heis computed to retrieve the most relevant experiences. The top- kmost similar experiences are
then refined through a module Ωrefine , which performs (1) re-ranking to ensure contextual relevance and
task alignment, and (2) re-writing to enhance the generality and adaptability of the retrieved experiences.
The overall retrieval process is formalized as:
EXP(g) =Ω refine
TopKk {sim(h q,he)|e∈ P exp}
, (14)
*More implementation details can be found at:https://github.com/agentscope-ai/ReMe.
9

where sim(· ,·)denotes the similarity measure computed by the cosine similarity function, TopKkselects
thekexperiences with the highest similarity scores, and Ωrefine(·)performs re-ranking and re-writing to
yield the final retrieved setEXP(g).
4.2 Experience-mixed Rollout
While prior experiences offer valuable guidance, excessive reliance on them may hinder exploration.
To balance this trade-off, we introduce anexperience-mixed rolloutstage that interleaves unguided and
experience-guided trajectories. By integrating these two types of rollouts, our approach allows agents to
efficiently leverage prior knowledge while maintaining flexibility and adaptability in novel situations.
Trajectory GenerationGiven the task g, the policy model πθoldinteracts with the environment to
generate a set of trajectories T=T(v)∪ T(e). Specifically, T(v)denotesvanilla rollouts, which are
generated solely by the policy model without external guidance; whereas T(e)corresponds toexperience-
guided rollouts, wherein retrieved experience is incorporated to steer the generation process:
T(v)=n
τ(v)
ioNv
i=1,T(e)=n
τ(e)
joNe
j=1,N=N v+N e. (15)
The balance between the two types of rollouts is controlled by η, with Ne=⌊η·N⌋ . The higher ηvalues
favor prior experience, while the lower values promote unconstrained exploration. For experience-guided
rollouts, a relevant experience snippet exp g∈EXP(g) is first retrieved (see Section 4.1) and injected into
the initial prompt following a predefined template, e.g., {system prompt}<EXP>{exp g}</EXP>{query}.
Advantage ComputationTo ensure a consistent treatment of both vanilla and experience-guided
trajectories, we compute the standardized advantage for each trajectoryτ∈ Tacross the entire set:
ˆA(τ) =R(τ)−µ R
σR+ε norm, (16)
where R(τ) denotes the reward for trajectory τ,µRandσRrepresent the mean and standard deviation of
rewards across all trajectories, andε norm is a small constant introduced for numerical stability.
This design allows the model to explicitly leverage prior textual experience through in-context learning,
steering generation toward reliable and sample-efficient reasoning paths while maintaining flexibility
with unconstrained vanilla rollouts. By integrating vanilla and experience-guided trajectories, the
proposed experience-mixed rollout strategy strikes a balance betweenexploration and exploitation,
offering a principled foundation for subsequent policy optimization.
4.3 Experience Incorporation
To seamlessly integrate the benefits of retrieved experiences into RL training, we propose anexperience
incorporationmechanism that operates during the optimization stage. This mechanism comprises two
complementary components:experience strippingandselective boosting. The former prevents spurious
dependence on explicit textual cues, while the latter amplifies the influence of pertinent constructive
experiences. In combination, these procedures ensure that experience effectively guides policy learning
while mitigating the peril of over-reliance on external prompts.
Experience StrippingWhile experience-guided rollouts leverage extracted experience by injecting it
into the input prompt, retaining these tokens during optimization risks undesirable overfitting, as the
model may memorize external content rather than assimilating its underlying reasoning signals. To
address this, we adopt anexperience strippingstrategy: prior to policy gradient computation, retrieved
experience tokens are removed from the training samples. This ensures that optimization is driven
exclusively by the generated trajectory, thus attributing reward signals to the model’s intrinsic reasoning
processes rather than auxiliary contextual cues. Consequently, the rollout phase continues to benefit from
experience, whereas the training phase fosters genuine policy improvement.
10

An illustration ofExperience Stripping
Before:
{system prompt} <EXP>{experience}</EXP>{query}{trajectory}
After:
{system prompt}{query}{trajectory}
Figure 7: Illustration ofexperience stripping.
Selective BoostingAfter obtaining experience-guided training samples with the experience tokens
removed, it is important to note that the original rollout trajectories were conditioned on both the query
and the experience, whereas the current optimization samples are conditioned solely on the query.
This inference and learning samplemismatchcauses a typical off-policy learning problem where the
probability distribution of the optimized samples is substantially narrower than that of the rollout
samples (Yan et al., 2025), leading the importance ratior(e)to grow uncontrollably.
Although standard PPO/GRPO clipping can partially mitigate this instability by constraining the impor-
tance ratio, excessive clipping suppresses the gradient contributions of experience-guided updates and
thus limits learning efficiency. To overcome this limitation, we propose aselective boostingstrategy. As
shown in Eq. (17), for samples with strictly positive advantages ( ˆA(e)>0), the upper clipping threshold
ˆϵhighis selectively boosted, allowing larger importance ratios to pass through without attenuation. This
preserves the optimization signals from favorable experience-conditioned trajectories, enabling the policy
model to learn more effectively from experience.
Lnavigating (θ) =−1
N"Nv
∑
i=1min
r(v)
iˆA(v)
i, clip 
r(v)
i, 1−ϵ low, 1+ϵ highˆA(v)
i
+Ne
∑
j=1min
r(e)
jˆA(e)
j, clip 
r(e)
j, 1−ϵ low, 1+ϵ jˆA(e)
j#
+βKL 
πθ∥πθold
,(17)
where:r(v)
i=πθ(τ(v)
i)
πθold(τ(v)
i),r(e)
j=πθ(τ(e)
j)
πθold(τ(e)
j),ϵ j=(
ˆϵhigh ifˆA(e)
j>0
ϵhigh otherwise.
5 Self-Attributing
In this section, we introduce the final stage of AgentEvolver ,self-attributing mechanism. Existing
methods such as GRPO (DeepSeek-AI, 2024) rely on sparse, trajectory-level rewards that equally credit all
actions, failing to distinguish between critical decisions and inconsequential steps. This credit assignment
leads to inefficient sample utilization and limits the policy’s ability to learn from fine-grained feedback.
To address this challenge, self-attributing transforms multi-step trajectories into efficient learning
signals by leveraging an LLM’s reasoning capabilities to assess the contribution of each action. It serves
as the concrete implementation of our proxy reward function, Freward in Eq. 5 (Section 2). We reformulate
credit assignment by shifting from temporal signal propagation tocontribution-based attribution. It
leverages a large language model’s reasoning capabilities to retrospectively determine whether each
action contributed positively or negatively to the final outcome.
We structure the learning signal around two distinct dimensions:process quality(the contribution
of an action step) andoutcome effectiveness(the final trajectory success). To preserve the distinct
contribution of each signal and prevent cross-signal interference, we apply standardization to each
dimension separately before fusing them into a composite reward. This signal is then mapped to token-
level advantages for GRPO optimization. By enabling precise, step-wise credit assignment, this design
significantly enhances sample efficiency, supporting AgentEvolver ’s objective of scalable and continual
agent improvement. The entire process is illustrated in the Self-Attributing panel of Figure 2.
5.1 Step-wise Attribution via LLM-based Reasoning
The first step of the self-attributing pipeline is to generate theprocess qualitysignal (Figure 2, Self-
Attributing panel, top). This is accomplished by using an LLM’s reasoning capabilities to retrospectively
11

System Prompt for Step-wise Attribution
You are an expert process reward evaluator specializing in attributional analysis.
INPUTS:A user’s TASK , a numbered SOLUTION TRAJECTORY of steps, and a final OVERALL
PERFORMANCE SCORE.
YOUR TASK:Attribute the contribution of each step in the trajectory to the final score based on
the following rules.
EV ALUATION RULES:
•If Score is POSITIVE>0:
– GOOD: The step contributed positively to the solution.
– BAD: The step was irrelevant, neutral, or detrimental.
•If Score is NEGATIVE≤0:
– GOOD: The steponly ifit actively corrected or mitigated an error.
– BAD: The step introduced, propagated, or failed to fix an error.
FOCUS:Evaluate strictly on thetechnical impactof each step’s action. Ignore superficial elements
like politeness. Reply in the required format only.
Figure 8: System Prompt Structure for step-wise attribution.
analyze completed trajectories. The goal is to produce a step-wise evaluation of each action’s contribution
to the final outcome, serving as a measure of its logical correctness within the task context.
To ensure contextual consistency and computational efficiency, we evaluate each trajectory holistically in
a single pass. Specifically, we format the entire context—including the initial task, all intermediate steps,
and the final outcome—into a single prompt (see Figures. 8 and 9) for LLM-based evaluation. It allows
the LLM to capture complex inter-step dependencies, ultimately outputting a binary label for each step:
GOODfor beneficial actions andBADfor those deemed irrelevant or counterproductive.
This method of generating theprocess qualitysignal offers several advantages over conventional,
handcrafted Process Reward Models (PRMs). First, by outputting binary labels ( GOOD /BAD), it directly
operationalizes the concept of attribution without requiring complex, task-specific scoring schemes,
which are often difficult to design and transfer across tasks. Second, it leverages the LLM’s high-level
reasoning capabilities to make contextual judgments, replacing rigid heuristics with flexible, situation-
aware analysis. Most importantly, the resulting attribution labels constitute a semantically-grounded
measure of process correctness. They provide directional feedback (i.e., positive or negative contribution)
rather than precise reward magnitudes. This qualitative signal is exactly what is needed to construct one
of the two independent channels—process quality—before its combination with outcome effectiveness in
the subsequent step (Section 5.3). This qualitative signal constitutes theprocess qualitychannel, one of
two independent inputs to our final reward. Its integration with the ’outcome effectiveness’ channel is
detailed in Section 5.3.
5.2 Attribution-Based Reward Construction
Building upon the step-wise qualitative labels (GOOD/BAD) labels generated in Section 5.1, this section
details the procedure for constructing a quantitative, step-wise attribution reward, rattr
t. This signal is
designed to function as a dense, process-oriented feedback mechanism that complements the sparse,
outcome-based reward. The goal is to convert the LLM’s discrete assessment into a continuous signal
suitable for policy optimization.
Quantification of Attribution Labels.To convert the categorical GOOD /BADlabels into a quantitative
signal, we assign a numerical attribution reward, rattr
t, to each step: +1 for GOOD and−1 for BAD. This
binary assignment provides a clear directional signal of each step’s localized contribution, without
introducing arbitrary scalar magnitudes that could bias gradient computation. Unlike continuous
scoring schemes that require careful calibration across diverse tasks and environments, this formulation
remains interpretable and stable. These step-wise attribution scores will subsequently be normalized and
integrated with outcome-based rewards (Section 5.3), enabling the policy to optimize for both procedural
correctness and task success.
12

User Prompt for Step-wise Attribution
TASK DESCRIPTION
<Original task query>
SOLUTION TRAJECTORY (total N steps)
>>> EVAL-STEP 0 <<<
<ACTION> ... <END>
<OBSERVATION> ... <END>
[. . . continue for all steps. . . ]
OVERALL PERFORMANCE SCORE<value>
REQUIRED OUTPUT FORMAT:
Step 0 Analysis:<your reasoning>
Step 0 Judgment:GOOD/BAD
[. . . continue for all steps. . . ]
Figure 9: User prompt Structure for step-wise attribution, which provides the concrete data for evaluation.
Normalization of the Attribution Signal.To ensure numerical stability and standardize the signal’s
scale before its integration with the outcome-based reward, we apply standardization to the raw attribu-
tion rewards, rattr
t. A critical design choice is the population over which the normalization statistics—mean
(µattr) and standard deviation ( σattr)—are computed. Since trajectories can vary significantly in length, a
naive step-level calculation could allow longer, potentially meandering trajectories to disproportionately
influence the statistics.
To address this and ensure that each trajectory is treated as an equally important trial, we adopttrajectory-
level standardization. In this approach, we first compute theaverageattribution reward for each trajectory.
The mean ( µattr) and standard deviation ( σattr) are then calculated over this population of trajectory-
average rewards. This method gives each trajectory equal weight in the normalization process, regardless
of its length, ensuring that the statistics reflect the distribution of overall trajectory quality rather than
being skewed by the volume of individual steps.
The standardized attribution reward, ˆrattr
t, is calculated for each step using these trajectory-level statistics:
ˆrattr
t=rattr
t−µattr
σattr+ϵ, (18)
whereϵ(e.g., 10−8) is a small constant to prevent division by zero.
Thus, ˆrattr
tserves as a dense, normalized reward signal grounded in the LLM’s attribution of each action’s
correctness.
5.3 Composite Reward Construction
To form a complete learning signal, we integrate the attribution-based reward ˆrattr
t(from Section 5.2)
with an outcome-based reward. This dual-channel approach, termed Attribution Outcome Integration
(Figure 2, right panel, middle), allows the agent to optimize for both procedural correctness and final
task success. The key to this fusion is the seperated normalization of each channel, which preserves their
distinct contributions. This section details the formulation of this composite reward.
Outcome Reward Formulation and Normalization.To complement the dense, process-oriented attri-
bution signal, we utilize the terminal reward in Section 3.4 as Rout, that reflects the final outcome of a
trajectory.
To maintain statistical independence from the attribution channel, this trajectory-level outcome reward is
normalized separately across the training group. The standardized outcome reward, ˆrout, is computed as:
ˆrout=Rout−µout
σout+ϵ, (19)
where µoutandσoutare the mean and standard deviation of the raw outcome rewards Routacross all
13

trajectories in the group. This independent normalization is crucial to prevent the scale of one signal
from inadvertently dominating the other during fusion.
Reward Fusion.The final composite reward for each step t, denoted as ˆrt, is then formulated by
combining the dense, process-oriented attribution signal with the sparse, outcome-based signal. The
outcome reward, ˆrout, is applied only at the terminal step of the trajectory to correctly attribute the final
success or failure. The formula is a weighted sum:
ˆrt=α· ˆrattr
t+1 t=T·ˆrout. (20)
Here, 1t=Tis an indicator function that equals 1 if t=T and 0 otherwise. The hyperparameter α≥ 0
controls the relative contribution of the attribution signal.
Advantage Computation.Next, we compute the step-level advantage, At, from the composite rewards,
ˆrk. For this, we adopt a simplified yet effective advantage estimation method, following the precedent set
by works like DeepSeek-Math (DeepSeek-AI, 2024). It defines the advantage directly as the undiscounted
cumulative future reward. This formulation is a special case of the standard discounted return where
the discount factor γis set to 1, thereby giving equal weight to all subsequent steps in a trajectory. The
advantage is thus calculated as:
At=T
∑
k=tˆrk. (21)
This calculation produces a single advantage value for each step that cohesively integrates both the
process correctness derived from LLM-based attribution and the empirical task success.
The Role of the Weighting Hyperparameter α.The hyperparameter αprovides a direct mechanism to
balance the influence of process correctness against outcome maximization. A higher value for αbiases
the agent towards learning policies that align with the LLM’s attribution assessments, fostering robust
and generalizable reasoning procedures. Conversely, a lower value prioritizes achieving the final task
goal.
This adjustable balance is particularly useful for implementing curriculum learning. For instance, training
can commence with a higher αto establish a strong procedural foundation, and then gradually decrease
αto fine-tune the policy for optimal task-specific performance.
5.4 Policy Optimization
The step-level advantages derived in Section 5.3 must be mapped to token-level signals for policy
gradient optimization. This section details the mapping procedure and the resulting optimization
objective (Figure 2, right panel, bottom).
Step-to-Token Mapping.Policy gradient methods for language models require token-level advantage
estimates. For each step tcorresponding to an action, we broadcast the step-level advantage Atto all
response tokens generated during that step, yielding token-level advantages Atok
j. Formally, if token j
belongs to steptas determined by the step identification mechanism, thenAtok
j=A t.
Integration with Experience-Guided Training.These token-level advantages Atok
jserve as the advan-
tage estimates for both vanilla and experience-guided rollouts in the complete optimization objective
(Equation 17). The composite advantage term incorporates both attribution-based process evaluation
and outcome-based task success, enabling the policy to optimize for both intermediate step quality and
final trajectory outcomes. This unified treatment ensures consistent credit assignment across different
trajectory types while maintaining the selective boosting mechanism for experience-guided samples
described in Section 4.
6 Framework and Infrastructure
6.1 Training Framework
This section introduces the training framework that turns the three mechanisms— self-questioning ,
self-navigating , and self-attributing —into an end-to-end, service-oriented system. The design
emphasizes (i) a clear dataflow from environments to model updates, (ii) a hierarchical rollout stack
tailored to agentic, multi-turn interaction, and (iii) algorithmic extensibility via modular, decoupled
components.
14

Context ManagerRollout Workers Sample ConstructionAdvantage computingContext OrganizationExperience ManagerSemanticSummaryExp. RecallTrainer Workers Param. updateLoss computeTaskManagerTask FilteringTaskSynthesisMasterA. Get TasksB. ExploreTrajectories
LLMWorkerAsync LLM ServerLLMWorkerC. SummarizeExperiencesD. Update Models
D.2 Updating WeightsD.1 Training BatchEnv. WorkerEnvironment ServerEnv. Worker…B.1 Create/Get StateB.3 Get ActionB.2Get Exp.A.1 ExploreParallelledFigure 10: Framework of the AgentEvolver System.
Overall Architecture and Data Flow.As illustrated in Figure 10, aMaster Orchestratordrives a four-
stage loop: (A)Task Synthesis, (B)Trajectory Rollout, (C)Experience Summarization, and (D)Sample
Construction & Model Optimization. First,Task Synthesisis handled by aTask Manager, which performs
self-questioningby interacting with the environment to explore and automatically generate candi-
date training tasks.Trajectory Rolloutthen launches parallel executions of these tasks, where multiple
rollout workers conduct multi-turn interactions between the model and the environment to generate
diverse trajectories. Next,Experience Summarizationis performed by theExperience Manager, which
condenses historical trajectories into compactexperience texts(e.g., skills, tactics, or failure notes). These
summaries are indexed and retrieved during future rollouts to provide in-context guidance (ICL), en-
abling self-navigating rollouts that improve rollout quality and exploration efficiency. Finally,Sample
Construction & Model Optimizationapplies self-attributing to convert trajectories and intermediate
states into training samples with fine-grained credit assignment (e.g., step-level attribution) and updates
the policy parameters accordingly.
Hierarchical Rollout Execution For Agentic Multi-turn Interaction.To support complex multi-turn
interactions at scale, the rollout process is organized into three hierarchical layers, as illustrated in
Figure 10:
1.Service Layer (bottom):Comprising theEnvironment ServerandLLM Server, this layer manages
multiple independent environment or model workers. Each worker handles a single environment
step or model inference request and exposes standardized interfaces that can be accessed by
rollout workers.
2.Rollout Workers (middle):The basic unit for sampling a trajectory. Each worker interacts with
the environment to initialize instances, execute actions, and collect observations, and with the
model to assemble prompts and invoke the LLM in sequence, generating a complete trajectory
for a given task.
3.Rollout Manager / Master (top):Oversees scheduling of multiple rollout workers, defines
termination criteria, and coordinates curriculum strategies across workers.
A key design principle is thedecoupling of agent logic from runtime services: the environment and LLM are
provided as independent services, while the agent logic is encapsulated in acontext manager(described
in Section 6.2.1) that composes prompts from the current state. This separation allows the same rollout
infrastructure to host diverse agent workflows—such as ReAct policies, planner–executor schemes, or
tool-using agents—without modification to the service layer.
Algorithmic Extensibility.The framework is designed to separate algorithmic logic from the underlying
infrastructure, so that new methods can be introduced without altering the runtime services:
•Task Manager.Handles task generation and filtering. Developers can freely switch between
different task–synthesis modules and task–filtering strategies to explore alternative curricula or
environment–specific goals.
•Rollout & Context Manager.Controls the agent’s multi-turn interaction logic. By modifying the
context manager, developers can restructure the agentic flow—for example implementing ReAct,
15

Memory
ExtractMemory
Extractaction 1
obs 1
action 2Task
obs 2
<think> +
action 3action 1
obs 1
action 2Task
obs 2
action 3
Context Operation
Command Prompt
Context
Operationaction 1
(discarded)
action 2Task
obs 2'
action 3
obs 3
<think> +
action 4action 1
(discarded)
action 2Task
obs 2'
action 3
obs 3
 action 4
obs 4
<think> +
action 5Self-context Managing
Template
action 1
obs 1
action 2
obs 2
......
action 
obs Task
action 
obs 
......
action 
obs Task
    
...... Echomem 
action
obs 
......
action 
obs Task
    
...... Echomem action 1
obs 1
......
action 
obs ......TSR T imeline #1Sliding Context Window
TemplateBasic Causal Template
<think>  +
action 1
obs 2
<think> +
action 3action 1
<think> +
action 2action 1
obs 1
action 2obs 1TSR T imeline #1 #2 #3
Operation: Preserve
Operation: Discard
Operation: CompressReasoning-Argumented
Template
Task Task Task#nTSR T imeline TSR T imeline TSR T imeline
#(n+1) #(n+2)#nTSR T imeline TSR T imeline
#n+ #(n+1)TSR T imeline
#(n+2)TSR T imelineTask
...
LLM Generated Action 
Tokens (Compute Policy Loss)Environment Tokens / 
Masked Action Tokens
Task Tokens      Memory TokensFigure 11: The four fundamental context managing templates of AgentEvolver. Yellow blocks indicate
LLM messages, blue blocks correspond to environment messages or messages masked from loss function,
and purple blocks represent memory messages. The displayed timelines depict the anticipated outcomes
after the Timeline Snapshot Recorder (TSR) completes the timeline merging process.
planner–executor, or other reasoning patterns—without changing the service layer.
•Experience Manager.Summarizes past trajectories into concise experience texts and retrieves
them during future rollouts. Alternative summarization or retrieval mechanisms can be inte-
grated to guide exploration and improve in-context learning.
•Training Pipeline.Supports interchangeable sample-generation methods and model-optimization
algorithms, such as different credit-assignment schemes, advantage estimators, or loss objectives.
These modules operate within a unified orchestration loop, allowing researchers to extend or replace any
stage while maintaining a stable interface to the rest of the system.
6.2 Context Manager
Long-horizon reinforcement learning with large language models (LLMs) requires not only reasoning
and planning, but also dynamic management of historical context across multiple interactions. Existing
paradigms exhibit a trade-off: thecausal multi-step rolloutparadigm maintains strong temporal consistency
but lacks flexibility (Jin et al., 2025), while thestep-independent multi-turn rolloutparadigm offers full
editability at the cost of significant computational overhead (Feng et al., 2025). To unify these two
perspectives, AgentEvolver introduces aContext Manager (CM)that serves as the central infrastructure
for controlling context evolution during agent–environment interactions.
The CM provides a consistent interface for both causal and non-causal interaction modes, enabling
efficient, adaptive, and reasoning-aware rollouts. Its design aims to (1) maintain the computational
efficiency of causal training, (2) allow selective modification of historical context when necessary, and (3)
support agents that can eventuallyself-managetheir own context. To achieve this, CM introduces two
fundamental data structures shared across all rollout paradigms.
Core Abstractions: Live Timeline and Snapshot Recorder.The Context Manager operates on two
simple yet powerful primitives:
•Live Context Timeline (LCT)— a mutable sequence representing the agent’s current working
context during multi-turn interaction.
•Timeline Snapshot Recorder (TSR)— an immutable buffer that stores frozen snapshots of the
LCT whenever the policy LLM generates an action.
16

The LCT acts as the agent’s short-term, editable memory, while the TSR maintains a verifiable, token-level
record of the entire episode. After each rollout, the TSR automatically performstimeline merging, removing
redundant subsequences and aligning loss masks across overlapping segments. This dual-structure
design allows CM to support both efficient causal rollouts and flexible reasoning-oriented rollouts within
a unified framework.
6.2.1 Rollout Paradigms and Context-Managing Templates
Built upon the LCT–TSR abstraction, the Context Manager defines a family ofContext-Managing
Templates (CMTs). Each template specifies how the LCT evolves during interaction, thus representing a
different balance between efficiency, reasoning capacity, and autonomy. The four fundamental templates
are illustrated in Figure 11.
(i) Basic Causal Template — Efficient and Deterministic.The simplest template follows a strictly
causal organization of messages. At the beginning of an episode, the initial task instruction is appended
to the LCT. The agent then repeats the observe–act cycle until termination, after which only the final LCT
snapshot is retained by the TSR. This design ensures full temporal consistency and low computational
cost, making it ideal for search-style RL training (Jin et al., 2025). However, since messages cannot be
edited or removed, memory consumption grows linearly with context length, and the lack of editability
complicates reasoning-intensive behaviors.
(ii) Reasoning-Augmented Template — Structured Thinking Before Action.Reasoning before action
has proven beneficial in complex decision-making tasks (Guo et al., 2025). The reasoning-augmented
template trains agents to explicitlythink before acting. For models without pre-trained reasoning ability
(e.g., Qwen2 (Team et al., 2024)), structured prompts encourage the model to generate <think> tokens
before decisions, with additional rewards promoting high-quality reasoning. For models that already
possess reasoning skills (e.g., Qwen3-14B (Team, 2025)), the template enhances consistency and efficiency.
(iii) Sliding Context Window Template — Scalable to Long Horizons.Long-horizon tasks often
generate hundreds or thousands of interaction steps, exceeding the token capacity of typical LLMs.
To address this, the sliding context window template treats the LCT as a moving window. When its
size exceeds a predefined threshold, the Context Manager summarizes older content into a compressed
memory messageand initializes a new timeline window for subsequent interactions. After timeline
merging, only a minimal set of window snapshots remains. This approach preserves local causality while
keeping GPU memory usage constant, achieving scalability to arbitrarily long episodes.
(iv) Self-Context Managing Template — Toward Autonomy.The previous templates rely on fixed
rules for context updates. In contrast, the self-context managing template allows the agent toactively
controlits own memory. When the LCT exceeds a token limit, the CM triggers a specialcontext operation
prompt, asking the policy LLM to select for each message one of three operations:
acontext∈ {α keep,αremove ,αcompress },
corresponding to preservation, deletion, and compression (via an external summarizing LLM). This
paradigm enables fine-grained control over the token budget and encourages the emergence of self-
regulated information filtering behavior. It is particularly effective in environments that generate large
amounts of uninformative text.
Discussion.All four templates share the same underlying LCT–TSR mechanism but differ in how
they manipulate or delegate control over context evolution. Together, they form a spectrum from rigid
causality to full autonomy: the Basic Causal Template maximizes efficiency, while the Self-Context
Managing Template empowers agents to regulate their own memory dynamically. This unified view
of context management provides a principled foundation for building scalable, reasoning-capable, and
self-adaptive LLM agents.
6.3 Environment Service: A Scalable and Gym-Compatible Execution Backend
To support flexible and high-performance agent-environment interaction, we present an Environment
Service that offers a scalable, service-oriented execution backend compatible with the OpenAI Gym
interface. In contrast to traditional Gym environments that are tightly coupled with the training loop, our
system decouples environment execution into an independent service, enabling remote, concurrent, and
isolated environment instances on demand.
Standardized InterfaceWe implement a minimal, Gym-compatible interface that defines core function-
alities such as initialization, state retrieval, step-wise execution, evaluation, and lifecycle management.
17

The interface is fully parameterizable, supporting dynamic runtime configuration of environment behav-
ior. In addition to classical task environments, our design allows seamless integration with open-world
tools and modular components such as Model Context Protocols (MCPs) and user-defined functions
(UDFs), extending the range of supported scenarios. This unified interface ensures compatibility across
diverse experimental settings while maintaining modularity and reusability.
High-Concurrency Execution with RayTo support large-scale concurrent training, each environment
instance is executed as an isolated actor using Ray, a distributed computing framework. This approach
provides efficient, lightweight isolation without relying on container-based sandboxing, significantly
reducing overhead. Environment instances can be launched and terminated dynamically, enabling
flexible scaling across CPU and GPU resources with support for both asynchronous and synchronous
interaction modes.
Lightweight Deployment and IntegrationThe Environment Service is designed for ease of deployment
and minimal integration overhead. Preconfigured environments—includingAppWorld(Trivedi et al.,
2024),BFCL(Patil et al., 2025),WebShop(Yao et al., 2022), andCrafter(Hafner, 2021)—can be launched via
Docker or installed via Python packages. Once deployed, the service exposes a unified HTTP interface
for query submission and agent interaction, allowing training pipelines to operate without concerns over
dependency conflicts or environment-specific installations.
7 Experiments
In this section, we conduct a series of comprehensive experiments to systemically evaluate the per-
formance of AgentEvolver . We begin by detailing the experimental settings (Section 7.1), followed by
a presentation of the main results that demonstrate the superior performance of AgentEvolver across
a broad range of tasks and configurations (Section 7.2). Finally, we perform extensive ablation and
analytical studies to thoroughly investigate the contribution and effectiveness of each module within the
proposed framework (Section 7.3 - 7.6).
7.1 Experimental Settings
7.1.1 Benchmarks and Evaluations
We evaluate AgentEvolver on two tool-augmented, long-horizon agent benchmarks:AppWorld(Trivedi
et al., 2024) andBFCL v3(Patil et al., 2025). Both expose multi-step API/tool interactions under sparse
terminal rewards and are served through ourEnvironment Service(Section 6.3) with Ray-based isolated
actors and a unified HTTP interface to decouple runtime from training.
ForAppWorld, we reportTask Goal Completion (TGC)—the percentage of tasks for which the agent passes
all programmatic evaluation tests—exactly following the official definition. ForBFCL v3, weonlyuse the
multi-turnsplit and follow the official multi-turn evaluation: at the end of each turn, an example is marked
correct only if it simultaneously passesstate-basedchecks (final backend state matches ground truth on
non-private attributes) andresponse-basedchecks (subset-matched execution path); force-terminated
runs are counted as incorrect. Unless otherwise stated, we report: (i)avg@8, averaging TGC over 8
independent rollouts per instance; and (ii)best@8best TGC over 8 independent rollouts evaluation on
AppWorld and BFCL v3. Trajectories are truncated at a maximum of 30 steps.
7.1.2 Baselines and Backbone Models
Our experiments leverage two backbone models from the Qwen2.5 series:Qwen2.5-7B-Instructand
Qwen2.5-14B-Instruct(Team et al., 2024) . These models serve as the agent’s policy network. To rigorously
evaluate the efficacy of our methods, we compare against a Vanilla GRPO baseline (DeepSeek-AI, 2024).
This baseline follows the standard reinforcement learning paradigm for agents, where the policy is
optimized using only the final, sparse outcome signal, without incorporating any of the AgentEvolver
mechanisms such as experience-based guidance or process-based rewards.
7.1.3 Implementation Details
We train our agent policies usingGRPO-stylemethod. The general training configuration includes a
learning rate of 1 ×10−6, a batch size of 32, and 40 epochs per policy update. The KL penalty coefficient
is 0.001. All experiments were conducted on a cluster of 8 NVIDIA A100 (80GB) GPUs using our
AgentEvolver, which is built on PyTorch and theveRLlibrary.
Self-QuestioningWe create environment profiles for the Appworld and BFCL benchmarks, as well as
user preferences. The synthetic queries are expected to involve two entities, three attributes, and three
18

Table 1: Performance on two benchmarks. Columns show avg@8 and best@8 for each benchmark, plus
their averages (Avg.). All values are in percent (%).Bolded numbershighlight the best results.
Model Params AppWorld BFCL v3 Avg.
avg@8 best@8 avg@8 best@8 avg@8 best@8
Qwen2.5-7B 7B 1.8 5.6 29.8 42.4 15.8 24.0
+Questioning 7B 23.2 40.3 49.0 60.6 36.1 50.5
+Questioning&Navigating 7B 26.3 43.1 53.3 61.0 39.8 52.1
+Questioning&Attributing 7B 25.7 43.7 56.8 65.3 41.3 54.5
AgentEvolver(overall) 7B 32.4 51.2 57.9 69.0 45.2 60.1
Qwen2.5-14B 14B 18.0 31.4 41.6 54.1 29.8 42.8
+Questioning 14B 44.3 65.5 60.3 72.1 52.3 68.8
+Questioning&Navigating 14B 45.4 65.3 62.8 74.5 54.1 69.9
+Questioning&Attributing 14B 47.8 65.6 64.9 76.3 56.4 71.0
AgentEvolver(overall) 14B 48.7 69.4 66.5 76.7 57.6 73.1
operations as defined in environment profiles (e.g. Figure 4), and are required to meet a hard difficulty
level. For the Appworld environment, exploration steps Nband Ndare set to 3 and 17, respectively.
For BFCL, Nb=3 and Nd=27. We adopt Qwen-Plus as the exploration agent, where the sampling
temperature is set to 1. For task synthesis, Qwen-Plus is employed with default settings to achieve
balanced efficiency. We use Qwen3-235B-A22B as the LLM judge to better adhere to complex scoring
criteria. For task filtering, we first set the lexical deduplication similarity threshold to 0.8 to filter out the
queries. During training on hybrid data, we downscale advantages from ptrainby a decay factor 0.5 to
reduce bias and stabilize training relative top target .
Self-NavigatingForexperience acquisition, we setN pc=4. The cold-start experience pool is initialized
with tasks generated by the self-questioning module in the main experiments. Regarding the experience
retrieval, we set TopK parameter as k= 5. Implementation details of the construction and retrieval
pipelines are provided in ReMe†. Forexperience-mixed rollout, the proportion of experience-guided
trajectories is set to η= 0.5. Forexperience incorporation, the importance sampling ratio is clipped at
ϵlow=ϵ high=0.28 with an extended bound ˆϵhigh=0.6. A comprehensive analysis of sensitivity to these
parameters is presented in Section 7.4. In the ablation study, we report bothavg@4andbest@4. Since the
experience-mixed rollout ratio is fixed at 0.5 during testing, we report only the results without experience
guidance to provide a fair assessment of the impact of experience incorporation.
Self-AttributingWe use Qwen-Max‡as the judge LLM to perform joint, single-shot evaluation over the
entiretrajectory—i.e., all steps are assessed in one batched call for consistency and efficiency. Attribution
labels aredirectly mappedto signed unit scores (e.g., GOOD→ 1.0,BAD→ 0.0 or -1.0) without intermediate
scoring heuristics. We then applystep-level normalization(within group) to the attribution scores before
fusing them with the terminal-outcome signal. For simplicity, we fix the outcome weight β=1 andtune
onlythe attribution weight αto control the relative contribution of attribution vs. outcome; the αschedule
and ablation settings are provided in Section 7.5.
Degenerate normalization cases (e.g., near-zero variance) are handled by neutralizing the corresponding
signal for stability.
7.2 Main Results
We conduct a series of experiments to evaluate the overall performance of the proposed AgentEvolver
framework and systematically analyze the contributions of its three core components. The results are
presented in Table 1. Following an ablative structure, we begin with a baseline model and progressively
incorporate each proposed mechanism — self-questioning ,self-navigating , and self-attributing -to
isolate and quantify their individual effects.
As shown in Table 1, integrating all modules intoAgentEvolver (overall)leads to substantial performance
gains. For the 7B model, overall avg@8 improves by 29.4% (AppWorld +30.6%, BFCL v3 +28.1%) and
best@8 by 36.1% (AppWorld +45.6%, BFCL v3 +26.6%). For the 14B model, overall avg@8 increases by
27.8% (AppWorld +30.7%, BFCL v3 +24.9%) and best@8 by 30.3% (AppWorld +38.0%, BFCL v3 +22.6%),
demonstrating that AgentEvolver consistently enhances reasoning and task execution across benchmarks.
†https://github.com/agentscope-ai/ReMe
‡https://bailian.console.aliyun.com/
19

The sources of this improvement can be further clarified by analyzing the contribution of each component.
The most substantial initial gain comes from+Questioning, which enables the agent to autonomously
generate diverse training tasks. This mechanism alone raises the avg@8 score from 15.8% to 36.1% for the
7B model and from 29.8% to 52.3% for the 14B model, effectively mitigating task scarcity and establishing
a strong baseline. Building upon this, self-navigating (+Questioning&Navigating) further enhances
exploration efficiency, improving the 7B model’s score to 39.8% and the 14B model’s to 54.1%. The
addition of self-attributing (+Questioning&Attributing) brings another notable improvement—to
41.3% and 56.4% respectively—demonstrating the benefit of fine-grained credit assignment in optimizing
learning efficiency. Finally, the complete AgentEvolver (overall)achieves the highest performance
across all settings, confirming that the three mechanisms— self-questioning ,self-navigating , and
self-attributing—complement one another synergistically to realize the framework’s full potential.
7.3 Results of Self-Questioning
This section presents detailed evaluations of the proposed self-questioning module, structured into
three investigations that validate its contributions. We first compare the synthetic data with the original
data from the target task distribution ptarget(g)to demonstrate the effectiveness of the self-questioning
tasks. Next, we conduct an ablation study on data volume by training the model using varying quantities
of synthetic samples, to investigate the impact of data diversity. Finally, we study the LLM Judge, which
provides high-quality synthetic signals for model training.
7.3.1 Effectiveness of Synthetic Data
Table 2: Performance of synthetic data under different data settings. Columns show avg@8 and best@8
for each benchmark, plus their averages (Avg.). All values are in percent (%).
Model Setting Appworld BFCL Avg.
avg@8 best@8 avg@8 best@8 avg@8 best@8
Qwen2.5-7BZero-shot 1.8 5.6 29.8 42.4 15.8 24.0
Originalp target 16.1 25.5 58.8 74.0 37.5 49.8
Syntheticp train 23.2 40.3 49.0 60.6 36.1 50.5
Hybridp hybrid 21.8 36.3 65.3 75.6 43.6 56.0
Qwen2.5-14BZero-shot 18.0 31.4 41.6 54.1 29.8 42.8
Originalp target 46.1 61.5 68.6 74.3 57.4 68.0
Syntheticp train 44.3 65.5 60.3 72.1 52.3 68.8
Hybridp hybrid 48.4 68.1 73.0 81.1 60.7 74.6
To verify the self-questioning module and check whether it can generate effective data to guide training
in unknown environments, we first conduct comparative experiments using synthetic data generated by
self-questioning module and the original data from the target task distribution. In Table 2, the agents
trained on synthetic data in Appworld and BFCL both show significant performance improvements
compared to the zero-shot agent, which is also close to the performance achieved with the original
data. This suggests that self-questioning explores valuable questions from the environments, and these
questions reflect user preferences while being able to guide the agent’s capability improvement, achieving
results consistent with human-curated data in a more efficient and automatic manner. Additionally,
on the hybrid data, the agent’s performance completely surpasses the performance of agents trained
on the original data. This suggests that the synthetic data enhances diversity and further expands the
boundaries of the original data, thereby extending the agent’s capability.
7.3.2 Influence of Synthetic Data Quantity
Unlike human-curated data, our module efficiently synthesizes a large volume of training data. The
underlying assumption is that more data can cover a wider range of scenarios, leading to higher perfor-
mance. To examine the synthesis efficiency of the self-questioning module, we investigate the influence
of data quantity on training. As shown in Figure 12a, the agent achieves a high performance of 40.3%
with only 100 samples. As the volume increases to 200 and 500, the performance improves further, while
the gain diminishes gradually. This suggests that the tasks explored by the self-questioning module
are diverse, achieving good training efficiency even with a small amount of data. This efficiency stems
from the effective exploratory tasks generated by the self-questioning module. Crucially,it reduces
the reliance on costly data, opening a path to scale up performance by incorporating large volumes of
inexpensive synthetic data.
20

100 200 500
Data Volume404142434445Avg@8 (%)
40.342.744.3(a)
Naive LLM Judge
(w/o principle & ref.)Judge
(w/ principle, w/o ref.)Ours
Judge Configuration01020304050Avg@8 (%)22.533.144.3 (b)
Figure 12: (a) Impact of Data Volume on Model Performance. As the volume increases, performance
improves accordingly. The diversity of synthetic data effectively enhances performance. (b) Performance
Comparison of LLM Judge Configurations. Our proposed judge improves the performance, and the
introduction of reference solution significantly enhances it.
7.3.3 Capability Generalization with Synthetic Data
In this section, we examine the generalization of agent capability trained on synthetic data from a cross-
domain perspective. We validate the performance of models trained on Appworld and BFCL synthetic
data by cross-evaluating them on each other’s test sets, with the results shown in Table 3. As can be seen,
the synthetic data still provides a performance boost for the agent. The Qwen2.5-14B model trained on
Appworld and transferred to BFCL exhibits a performance drop of only 4.3%. This suggests that the
agent’s capability is generalizable. The performance improvement brought by our AgentEvolver can be
attributed to gains in both general and domain-specific capabilities. This finding lays a foundation for
broader and more generalized agent self-evolution.
Table 3: Cross-domain performance of synthetic data. Columns show avg@8 and best@8 for each
benchmark, plus their averages (Avg.).Bolded numbershighlight the cross-domain results.
Model Train on Appworld BFCL Avg.
avg@8 best@8 avg@8 best@8 avg@8 best@8
Qwen2.5-7BZero-shot 1.8 5.6 29.8 42.4 15.8 24.0
Appworld 23.2 40.336.1 45.0 29.7 42.7
BFCL1.2 4.249.0 60.6 25.1 32.4
Qwen2.5-14BZero-shot 18.0 31.4 41.6 54.1 29.8 42.8
Appworld 44.3 65.556.0 68.9 50.2 67.2
BFCL22.9 40.860.3 72.1 41.6 56.5
7.3.4 Ablation Study on the LLM Judge
The LLM Judge is a critical component of the self-questioning module, as it replaces the environment
to provide a synthetic reward for the synthetic data. In this part, we conduct experiments to test the
efficacy of our proposed LLM Judge, including the scoring process and the reference solution. The
relevant results are reported in Figure 12b. The figure shows that even if the synthetic data itself
is of high quality, the agent’s capability can barely be improved if only a naive LLM Judge (w/o
principle) is adopted. Performance significantly improves after implementing thebasic principleproposed
in Section 3.4, confirming that the combination of scoring criteria can distinguish the quality of the
rollouts. After incorporating the reference solution summarized during the exploration phase, the
performance shows substantial improvement, closely matching the performance trained on human-
curated data. The reference solution can be specialized to the specific environment to provide a clearer
scoring standard while being generalizable across different environments without relying on high-quality
human annotation. Through the aforementioned design, our LLM Judge is able to facilitate efficient
training in conjunction with the synthetic data.
21

7.4 Results of Self-Navigating
In this part, we present a systematic analysis of the self-navigating module along four dimensions.
First, we validate theeffectiveness of experience, demonstrating its ability to guide the model toward
higher-quality trajectories. Building on this, we compareexplicit and implicit experience learning,
where the former is realized via ICL and the latter allows the model to internalize optimal behavior
patterns without direct exposure to retrieved experiences. Next, we investigate how the proportion of
experience-guided rollouts within the same query group shapes both training and inference, emphasizing
thebalance between exploration and exploitation. Finally, we analyze the influence of ˆϵhighin Eq. 17,
revealing its role in balancingshort- and long-term optimization.
+4.97%+6.51%+5.77%+6.93%
(a)
𝜂
𝜂𝜂𝜂𝜂𝜂𝜂 (b)
Figure 13: (a) Effect of incorporating experience rollouts during inference. (b) Performance trends under
varying experience ratios ( η): the lower bars represent zero-shot inference with experience (prior to
training), while the upper curve shows training dynamics using experience-guided data, with evaluation
performed without experience on the validation set. Together, these results reveal the contrast between
directly exploiting experience and internalizing it through training.
7.4.1 Effectiveness of Experience on Navigation
We begin by examining whether incorporating retrieved experiences during inference can improve the
quality of generated trajectories without additional training. Specifically, we measure trajectory quality
by the rewards obtained, which naturally reflect task success. As illustrated in Figure 13a, results on both
AppWorld and BFCL consistently demonstrate that past experiences provide strong navigation signals:
they stabilize rollouts and raise the performance ceiling, yielding average gains of ↑5.4% avg@4 and
↑6.7% best@4 . Collectively, these results underscore thevalue of leveraging experience as an external
compass: even without training, contextualized guidance allows the model to explore more effectively
and produce superior outcomes.
7.4.2 Implicit vs. Explicit Experience Learning
Table 4: Ablation studies of self-navigating on two benchmarks. Columns show avg@4 and best@4 on the
devset for each benchmark, plus their averages (Avg.). All values are in percent (%).Bolded numbers
highlight the best results. The backbone model is Qwen2.5-14B.
Method AppWorld BFCL v3 Avg.
avg@4 best@4 avg@4 best@4 avg@4 best@4
w/o RL
zero-shot 17.3 37.4 33.0 50.6 25.2 44.0
+exp.20.2 41.6 41.5 61.9 30.9 51.8
w/ RL
baseline 51.5 69.8 62.8 73.0 57.2 71.4
Navigating (w/oselect) 53.1 63.8 60.3 73.2 56.7 68.5
Navigating (ours) 64.7 85.9 65.3 73.9 65.0 79.9
Having established the effectiveness of injecting experience during inference, we next investigate whether
such benefits can be sustained and generalized through training. Here, we distinguish betweenexplicit
22

Figure 14: Impact of ˆϵhigh on learning dynamics. Higher values speed up early learning but harm
long-term performance due to overfitting. A value of ˆϵhigh=0.6 offers the best balance between short-
and long-term optimization.
experience learning, where ICL leverages retrieved trajectories to guide the model, andimplicitexperience
learning, where RL-based training enables the policy to internalize experience without retrieval. While
the explicit approach yields gains, its reliance on external context imposes a clear performance ceiling. By
contrast, implicit learning consistently surpasses both ICL-only ( ↑34.2% in avg@4 and↑28.1% in best@4 )
and vanilla RL baselines ( ↑7.9% in avg@4 and↑8.5% in best@4 ), achieving superior performance without
retrieval at inference (see Table 4). Moreover, ablation studies reveal that removing theselective boosting
mechanism leads to a clear drop below the RL baseline ( ↓0.5% in avg@4 and↓2.9% in best@4 ), confirming
its necessity for effectively incorporating experience signals. In summary,explicit learning yields limited
improvements by leveraging external experience, whereas implicit learning internalizes experience to
raise the performance ceiling with better generalization and scalability substantially.
7.4.3 Exploration vs. Exploitation Dynamics
Although leveraging retrieved experience enhances trajectory quality through stronger exploitation, the
critical question is whether increased exploitation invariably leads to superior outcomes. Greater reliance
on prior experience can elevate short-term rewards by guiding rollouts toward higher-quality trajectories;
however, RL training fundamentally relies on exploration to preserve trajectory diversity and uncover
alternative high-reward solutions. Excessive exploitation thus risks constraining the search space and
impeding long-term optimization. To investigate this trade-off, we vary the proportion ηof experience-
guided rollouts within each query group. As expected, inference results show that higher proportions
consistently yield greater rewards (lower bars in Figure 13b), indicating that stronger exploitation directly
benefits immediate performance. However, training dynamics reveal a more nuanced pattern: while
larger ηaccelerates early gains, it ultimately suppresses exploration and weakens long-term outcomes, as
shown in the upper curve in Figure 13b. In contrast, η= 0.5 achieves the most effective balance, enabling
the policy to benefit from experience-driven guidance while retaining sufficient exploratory capacity.
Overall, the results indicate thatwhile aggressive exploitation benefits inference, sustainable training
requires a calibrated balance between exploration and exploitation.
7.4.4 Short-term vs. Long-term Optimization
We finally examine how the model balances immediate gains with sustained improvement by studying
the effect of the parameter ˆϵhighin Eq. 17. This parameter relaxes the GRPO clipping threshold, mitigating
distribution shifts introduced by experience-guided rollouts and preserving valuable positive samples
that might otherwise be discarded. To assess its impact, we vary ˆϵhighacross the range {0.4, 0.6, 0.8, 1.0 }.
As shown in Figure 14, we find that larger values accelerate early learning (within the first 20 steps)
but tend to compromise long-term performance (up to 80 steps) due to overfitting to biased trajectories.
Our findings indicate that setting ˆϵhigh=0.6 achieves the most favorable balance, facilitating both rapid
initial progress and stable long-term optimization. These observations suggest thatmoderate relaxation
fosters early progress while maintaining robustness, whereas overly aggressive values may deliver
short-term gains at the cost of long-term generalization.
23

7.5 Results of Self-Attributing
This section evaluates the self-attributing mechanism proposed in Section 5, which assigns fine-
grained rewards to trajectory steps based on their contribution. We examine three aspects: effectiveness
through ablation studies comparing outcome-only, attribution-only, and dual-channel configurations
(Section 7.5.1); sample efficiency by analyzing convergence speed and training dynamics (Section 7.5.2);
and the impact of the attribution weight hyperparameter αon learning trajectories (Section 7.5.3). Fol-
lowing the main experimental setup, all models are trained exclusively on synthetic data generated by
self-questioning , using Qwen2.5-7B and Qwen2.5-14B as backbone models on AppWorld and BFCL v3
benchmarks.
7.5.1 Effectiveness of Self-Attributing
To validate the effectiveness of our self-attributing mechanism (Section 5), we conduct systematic
ablation studies comparing four configurations on AppWorld and BFCL v3: (i) Backbone, the Qwen2.5
models (7B and 14B) without any reinforcement learning; (ii)Attributing, our complete self-attributing
method that integrates both attribution rewards rattrand outcome rewards routwith α=0.1 to balance
their contributions; (iii)w/o rattr, an ablation that removes step-wise attribution signals and relies solely
on terminal outcome rewards; and (iv)w/o rout, an ablation that excludes terminal rewards and depends
exclusively on attribution-based feedback. All variants are evaluated using avg@8 and best@8 metrics
under the TGC evaluation protocol (Table 5). Note that AppWorld results are reported on the dev set
here, while Table 1 uses the test-normal set.
Table 5: Effectiveness of self-attributing . Columns show avg@8 and best@8 on thedevset for each
benchmark, plus their averages (Avg.). All values are in percent (%).Bolded numbershighlight the best
results.
Model Params AppWorld BFCL v3 Avg.
avg@8 best@8 avg@8 best@8 avg@8 best@8
Qwen2.5-7B 7B 3.1 9.1 29.8 42.4 16.4 25.7
Attributing 7B 38.4 57.1 56.8 65.3 47.6 61.2
- w/o ˆrattr7B 33.6 46.6 49.0 60.6 41.3 53.6
- w/o ˆrout7B 20.2 37.5 51.3 65.2 35.7 51.4
Qwen2.5-14B 14B 17.8 27.7 41.8 55.3 29.8 41.5
Attributing 14B 59.2 75.1 64.9 76.3 62.0 75.7
- w/o ˆrattr14B 54.6 71.3 60.3 72.1 57.4 71.7
- w/o ˆrout14B 42.5 60.3 63.4 73.5 53.0 66.9
Our self-attributing method (Attributing) achieves the best performance across all settings, demon-
strating substantial improvements over the baseline. On the 7B model, it attains a macro-average of 47.6%
avg@8, compared to Qwen2.5’s 16.4% and 25.7% respectively. The 14B model shows even stronger results,
reaching 62.0% avg@8 and 75.7% best@8, significantly outperforming the baseline’s 29.8% and 41.5%.
On AppWorld specifically,self-attributingimproves avg@8 from 3.1% to 38.4% on the 7B model and
from 17.8% to 59.2% on the 14B model, representing dramatic gains of 35.3% and 41.4% percentage points
respectively.
The ablation studies reveal the complementary necessity of both reward channels. The w/o ˆrattrvariant,
relying solely on outcome rewards, achieves reasonable performance but suffers from uniform credit
assignment across trajectory steps. More notably, the w/o ˆroutvariant shows that process-level signals
alone are insufficient: while it substantially improves over Qwen2.5, it consistently underperforms w/o
ˆrattracross both model scales. This indicates that attribution provides valuable intermediate guidance
but requires terminal outcomes to ground policy learning toward task objectives. The consistent gains of
our complete method validate the dual-channel design: combining independently normalized signals for
intermediate step quality ( ˆrattr) and final outcome effectiveness ( ˆrout) enables the policy to optimize both
the reasoning process and task success.
7.5.2 Sample Efficiency of Self-Attributing
Beyond improving final performance (Section 5), we now investigate whether the self-attributing
mechanism also enhances sample efficiency—a critical consideration for practical agent training. To
this end, we conduct a quantitative analysis from two complementary perspectives: convergence speed,
measured by the training steps needed to reach a performance threshold, and overall learning throughput,
24

0 20 40 60 80 100
Training Steps (%)2030405060Avg@8 (%)
Baseline
Attributing(a) AppWorld
0 20 40 60 80 100
Training Steps (%)40455055606570Avg@8 (%)
Baseline
Attributing (b) BFCL v3
Figure 15:Efficiency under equal training budgets.Learning curves on the validation sets of the (a)
AppWorld and (b) BFCL v3 benchmarks. Our method, Attributing (solid purple line), is compared
against the GRPO baseline (dashed grey line).
0 20 40 60 80 100
Training Steps (%)2030405060Avg@8 (%)
Baseline
Attributing =0.05
Attributing =0.10
Attributing =0.20
Attributing =0.30
Figure 16:Learning curves for differentαvalueson
AppWorld. The dashed line shows the outcome-only
baseline; colored lines correspond to Attributing with
α∈ {0.05, 0.10, 0.20, 0.30}(darker to lighter).Table 6:Sample efficiency metricsfor the
Qwen2.5-14B backbone model. Steps@.9 mea-
sures the training steps required to reach 90%
of the baseline’s best performance (lower is
better,↓).
ModelAppWorld
Steps@.9 (↓)BFCL v3
Steps@.9 (↓)
Baseline 90 60
Attributing 40 20
quantified by the Area Under the Curve (AUC). The learning trajectories are visualized in Figure 15, with
corresponding metrics for the Qwen2.5-14B model detailed in Table 6.
Our Attributing method demonstrates substantial improvements in both convergence speed and overall
training efficiency. To reach 90% of the baseline’s final performance, our method requires only 40 training
steps on AppWorld (baseline: 90 steps) and 20 steps on BFCL v3 (baseline: 60 steps), corresponding to
reductions of 55% and 67% respectively. The method also achieves higher area-under-curve scores: 46.26
compared to 41.03 on AppWorld, and 61.02 compared to 55.78 on BFCL v3. These trends are consistent
across both benchmarks, as shown in the learning curves of Figure 15.
This efficiency gain arises from fine-grained credit assignment. Step-wise attribution signals ˆrattrprovide
dense feedback at each decision point, complementing sparse terminal outcomes ˆroutin the composite
reward. Each trajectory thus yields richer gradient information, reducing variance and minimizing
redundant exploration.
7.5.3 Hyperparameter Analysis
To understand the trade-off between rapid initial convergence and robust long-term performance, we
analyze the hyperparameter αfrom our composite reward rcomp(Eq. 23). This parameter controls
the relative influence of the process-oriented guidance from attribution signals ( ˆrattr) compared to the
objective-driven supervision from terminal outcomes. We systematically evaluate several values for
α∈ { 0.05, 0.10, 0.20, 0.30 }, with the resulting learning curves for the Qwen2.5-14B backbone on AppWorld
shown in Figure 16.
The results reveal a trade-off between early convergence and long-term performance. In the early stage
of training, larger αvalues accelerate learning: α=0.30 (yellow line) reaches 45% at 20 steps, while the
baseline achieves only 28%. However, this early advantage does not persist. By the end of training,
α=0.30 degrades to 43%, falling below all other attribution-based settings. In contrast, α=0.10 (purple
25

line) and α=0.20 (pink line) maintain strong performance throughout, converging to approximately
59%—substantially higher than both the baseline (55%) and the high- αvariant. The setting α=0.05 (dark
purple line) shows more conservative early gains but achieves comparable final performance.
This pattern indicates that excessive reliance on attribution signals can harm long-term learning. Large
αprovides strong process-level guidance that accelerates initial policy improvement, but may cause
overfitting to the LLM judge’s heuristic labels rather than true task objectives. Conversely, small α
underutilizes the attribution channel, slowing early progress. The optimal rangeα∈[0.10, 0.20]balances
exploitation of dense attribution feedback with grounding in outcome-based supervision, yielding both
rapid convergence and robust final performance.
7.6 Effectiveness of Context-Managing Templates
Different context-management strategies substantially influence an agent’s ability to adapt to diverse
tasks. In this section, we evaluate the effectiveness of the four fundamental Context-Managing Templates
(CMTs) introduced in Section 6.2, using theAppWorldbenchmark and evaluating agent’s TGC and
Scenario Goal Completion (SGC) metrics. All experiments are conducted with the Qwen3-14B model as
the underlying policy backbone.
Table 7:Comparison of TGC@4, TGC@8, SGC@4, and SGC@8 metrics across different Context-
Managing Templates (CMTs) in the AppWorld benchmark.The base model is Qwen3-14B. Higher
values indicate better performance (↑).
Context-Managing Template (CMT) TGC SGC
@4 (↑) @8 (↑) @4 (↑) @8 (↑)
Basic Causal Template 0.435 0.506 0.268 0.375
Reasoning-Augmented Template0.6610.6900.500 0.571
Sliding-Window Template 0.560 0.601 0.393 0.411
Self-Context-Managing Template 0.6130.720 0.500 0.607
As shown in Table 7, theSelf-Context-Managing Template (SCMT)achieves the best overall performance
in the AppWorld benchmark, particularly on the long-horizon metricTGC@8. AppWorld requires agents
to reason over extensive lists of available tool APIs, where only a small subset is relevant to the current
task. The SCMT improves efficiency by dynamically compressing or discarding redundant context
segments, enabling more focused reasoning and streamlined agent–environment interactions.
TheReasoning-Augmented Template (RAT)ranks second, highlighting the benefit of explicit “think-
before-act” steps in enhancing the reasoning ability of Qwen3 within complex multi-tool environments.
TheSliding-Window Template (SWT)performs moderately, as its periodic memory summarization
can omit essential dependencies over longer sequences, reducing contextual consistency compared to
SCMT. Finally, theBasic Causal Template (BCT)provides a simple yet robust baseline but lacks adaptive
memory control, leading to lower task completion scores in extended contexts.
8 Conclusion and Next Steps
This work introducedAgentEvolver, a self-evolving agent framework that shifts the learning initia-
tive from fixed, human-engineered pipelines to LLM-guided improvement. Grounded in a standard
training flow—from environments to tasks, from tasks to trajectories, and from trajectories to policy—
AgentEvolver operationalizes three synergistic mechanisms: (i) self-questioning for curiosity-driven
task generation, (ii) self-navigating for experience-guided exploration, and (iii) self-attributing for
fine-grained credit assignment along long horizons. Together, these components systematically alleviate
three persistent bottlenecks in RL-driven agent training: task scarcity, inefficient exploration, and low
sample utilization.
Beyond methodology, we presented a practical infrastructure that standardizes environment interfaces,
integrates with RL stacks such as veRL , and supports modular extension. This combination of algorithmic
design and engineering pragmatics positions AgentEvolver as both a research vehicle and a reusable
foundation for building adaptive, tool-augmented agents.
Next Steps
Looking ahead, we outline three directions that we believe will most effectively extend the scope and
impact of AgentEvolver:
26

1. Challenge-oriented applications.Building on current validations in APPWORLDand BFCL, we will
target environments with higher task complexity and greater real-world value (e.g., multi-API enterprise
workflows, safety-critical tool chains, and long-horizon, interleaved objectives). The goal is toco-design
environments and self-questioning curricula so that the agent uncovers functional boundaries more
systematically and produces deployable models with measurable business or scientific impact.
2. Scaling to larger models.We will explore AgentEvolver with larger LLM-based policy models to
investigate how the benefits of self-evolution scale with model capacity. Key questions include: How
does task quality under self-questioning improve as reasoning depth and reflective ability increase
with scale? Do larger policies, capable of abstracting and reusing their prior experiences, exhibit reduced
exploration redundancy during self-navigating ? Can self-attributing achieve more accurate credit
assignment when enhanced causal reasoning enables finer-grained tracing of decision origins? We will
further examine compute–data trade-offs and develop cost-aware curricula to enable scalable and efficient
long-horizon training.
3. LLM-level self-evolving.We aim to unify exploration, experience abstraction, self-attribution, and
inference within a single model (or tightly coupled family of models), enablingLLM-level self-improvement.
Concretely, the same model will (i) generate tasks and hypotheses, (ii) navigate new environments with
guidance from distilled priors, (iii) attribute outcomes to internal decisions, and (iv) update its reasoning
patterns and control policies accordingly. This line pursues tighter loops between memory, generalization,
and policy improvement, potentially yielding agents that maintain and refine a self-consistent body of
procedural knowledge over time.
Pursuing these directions will stress-test the proposed mechanisms in more realistic and dynamically
evolving settings. By coupling larger-capacity models with end-to-end, LLM-level self-evolving loops,
we expect further gains in sample efficiency, robustness, and cross-environment generalization, bringing
us closer to scalable, cost-effective, and continually improving agentic systems.
References
Yuri Burda, Harrison Edwards, Amos Storkey, and Oleg Klimov. Exploration by random network
distillation.arXiv preprint arXiv:1810.12894, 2018.
Qikai Chang, Zhenrong Zhang, Pengfei Hu, Jiefeng Ma, Yicheng Pan, Jianshu Zhang, Jun Du, Quan Liu,
and Jianqing Gao. THOR: tool-integrated hierarchical optimization via RL for mathematical reasoning.
CoRR, abs/2509.13761, 2025. doi: 10.48550/ARXIV .2509.13761. URL https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.
2509.13761.
Hao Chen, Abdul Waheed, Xiang Li, Yidong Wang, Jindong Wang, Bhiksha Raj, and Marah I Abdin.
On the diversity of synthetic data and its impact on training large language models.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2410.15226, 2024.
Ganqu Cui, Lifan Yuan, Zefan Wang, Hanbin Wang, Wendi Li, Bingxiang He, Yuchen Fan, Tianyu Yu,
Qixin Xu, Weize Chen, Jiarui Yuan, Huayu Chen, Kaiyan Zhang, Xingtai Lv, Shuo Wang, Yuan Yao,
Xu Han, Hao Peng, Yu Cheng, Zhiyuan Liu, Maosong Sun, Bowen Zhou, and Ning Ding. Process
reinforcement through implicit rewards.CoRR, abs/2502.01456, 2025a. doi: 10.48550/ARXIV .2502.
01456. URLhttps://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2502.01456.
Yue Cui, Liuyi Yao, Shuchang Tao, Weijie Shi, Yaliang Li, Bolin Ding, and Xiaofang Zhou. Enhancing tool
learning in large language models with hierarchical error checklists. In Wanxiang Che, Joyce Nabende,
Ekaterina Shutova, and Mohammad Taher Pilehvar (eds.),Findings of the Association for Computational
Linguistics, ACL 2025, Vienna, Austria, July 27 - August 1, 2025, pp. 16357–16375. Association for
Computational Linguistics, 2025b. URLhttps://aclanthology.org/2025.findings-acl.841/.
DeepSeek-AI. Deepseek-math: Pushing the limits of mathematical reasoning in open-source models,
2024.
Hanxing Ding, Shuchang Tao, Liang Pang, Zihao Wei, Jinyang Gao, Bolin Ding, Huawei Shen, and
Xueqi Cheng. Toolcoder: A systematic code-empowered tool learning framework for large language
models. In Wanxiang Che, Joyce Nabende, Ekaterina Shutova, and Mohammad Taher Pilehvar
(eds.),Proceedings of the 63rd Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume
1: Long Papers), ACL 2025, Vienna, Austria, July 27 - August 1, 2025, pp. 17876–17891. Association for
Computational Linguistics, 2025. URLhttps://aclanthology.org/2025.acl-long.874/.
27

Yu Du, Fangyun Wei, and Hongyang Zhang. Anytool: Self-reflective, hierarchical agents for large-scale
API calls. InForty-first International Conference on Machine Learning, ICML 2024, Vienna, Austria, July
21-27, 2024. OpenReview.net, 2024. URLhttps://openreview.net/forum?id=qFILbkTQWw.
Lang Feng, Zhenghai Xue, Tingcong Liu, and Bo An. Group-in-group policy optimization for llm agent
training.arXiv preprint arXiv:2505.10978, 2025.
Daya Guo, Dejian Yang, Haowei Zhang, Junxiao Song, Peiyi Wang, Qihao Zhu, Runxin Xu, Ruoyu Zhang,
Shirong Ma, Xiao Bi, et al. Deepseek-r1 incentivizes reasoning in llms through reinforcement learning.
Nature, 645(8081):633–638, 2025.
Danijar Hafner. Benchmarking the spectrum of agent capabilities.arXiv preprint arXiv:2109.06780, 2021.
Bowen Jin, Hansi Zeng, Zhenrui Yue, Jinsung Yoon, Sercan O. Arik, Dong Wang, Hamed Zamani, and
Jiawei Han. Search-r1: Training llms to reason and leverage search engines with reinforcement learning.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2503.09516, 2025.
Feiyang Kang, Newsha Ardalani, Michael Kuchnik, Youssef Emad, Mostafa Elhoushi, Shubhabrata
Sengupta, Shang-Wen Li, Ramya Raghavendra, Ruoxi Jia, and Carole-Jean Wu. Demystifying synthetic
data in llm pre-training: A systematic study of scaling laws, benefits, and pitfalls.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2510.01631, 2025.
Xuefeng Li, Haoyang Zou, and Pengfei Liu. Torl: Scaling tool-integrated RL.CoRR, abs/2503.23383, 2025.
doi: 10.48550/ARXIV .2503.23383. URLhttps://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2503.23383.
Aixin Liu, Bei Feng, Bing Xue, Bingxuan Wang, Bochao Wu, Chengda Lu, Chenggang Zhao, Chengqi
Deng, Chenyu Zhang, Chong Ruan, et al. Deepseek-v3 technical report.arXiv preprint arXiv:2412.19437,
2024.
Minghuan Liu, Menghui Zhu, and Weinan Zhang. Goal-conditioned reinforcement learning: Problems
and solutions.arXiv preprint arXiv:2201.08299, 2022.
Cong Lu, Shengran Hu, and Jeff Clune. Intelligent go-explore: Standing on the shoulders of giant
foundation models.arXiv preprint arXiv:2405.15143, 2024.
Shishir G. Patil, Tianjun Zhang, Xin Wang, and Joseph E. Gonzalez. The berkeley function calling
leaderboard (bfcl): From tool use to agentic evaluation of large language models. InProceedings of the
International Conference on Learning Representations (ICLR), 2025. URL https://gorilla.cs.berkeley.
edu/leaderboard.html.
Shuofei Qiao, Runnan Fang, Ningyu Zhang, Yuqi Zhu, Xiang Chen, Shumin Deng, Yong Jiang, Pengjun
Xie, Fei Huang, and Huajun Chen. Agent planning with world knowledge model.Advances in Neural
Information Processing Systems, 37:114843–114871, 2024.
Changle Qu, Sunhao Dai, Xiaochi Wei, Hengyi Cai, Shuaiqiang Wang, Dawei Yin, Jun Xu, and Ji-Rong
Wen. Tool learning with large language models: a survey.Frontiers Comput. Sci., 19(8):198343, 2025.
doi: 10.1007/S11704-024-40678-2. URLhttps://doi.org/10.1007/s11704-024-40678-2.
Tom Schaul, Daniel Horgan, Karol Gregor, and David Silver. Universal value function approximators. In
International conference on machine learning, pp. 1312–1320. PMLR, 2015.
Guangming Sheng, Chi Zhang, Zilingfeng Ye, Xibin Wu, Wang Zhang, Ru Zhang, Yanghua Peng,
Haibin Lin, and Chuan Wu. Hybridflow: A flexible and efficient rlhf framework.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2409.19256, 2024.
Yuda Song, Julia Kempe, and Remi Munos. Outcome-based exploration for llm reasoning.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2509.06941, 2025.
Shuo Tang, Xianghe Pang, Zexi Liu, Bohan Tang, Rui Ye, Tian Jin, Xiaowen Dong, Yanfeng Wang, and
Siheng Chen. Synthesizing post-training data for LLMs through multi-agent simulation. In Wanxiang
Che, Joyce Nabende, Ekaterina Shutova, and Mohammad Taher Pilehvar (eds.),Proceedings of the 63rd
Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers), pp. 23306–23335,
Vienna, Austria, July 2025. Association for Computational Linguistics. ISBN 979-8-89176-251-0. doi:
10.18653/v1/2025.acl-long.1136. URLhttps://aclanthology.org/2025.acl-long.1136/.
Qwen Team. Qwen3 technical report, 2025. URLhttps://arxiv.org/abs/2505.09388.
Qwen Team et al. Qwen2 technical report.arXiv preprint arXiv:2407.10671, 2:3, 2024.
28

Harsh Trivedi, Tushar Khot, Mareike Hartmann, Ruskin Manku, Vinty Dong, Edward Li, Shashank
Gupta, Ashish Sabharwal, and Niranjan Balasubramanian. Appworld: A controllable world of apps
and people for benchmarking interactive coding agents. InProceedings of the 62nd Annual Meeting of
the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers), pp. 16022–16076. Association for
Computational Linguistics, 2024. doi: 10.18653/v1/2024.acl-long.850.
Pablo Villalobos, Anson Ho, Jaime Sevilla, Tamay Besiroglu, Lennart Heim, and Marius Hobbhahn.
Position: Will we run out of data? limits of llm scaling based on human-generated data. InForty-first
International Conference on Machine Learning, 2024.
Xinyue Wang and Biwei Huang. Modeling unseen environments with language-guided composable
causal components in reinforcement learning.arXiv preprint arXiv:2505.08361, 2025.
Jianhao Yan, Yafu Li, Zican Hu, Zhi Wang, Ganqu Cui, Xiaoye Qu, Yu Cheng, and Yue Zhang. Learning
to reason under off-policy guidance.arXiv preprint arXiv:2504.14945, 2025.
Shunyu Yao, Howard Chen, John Yang, and Karthik Narasimhan. Webshop: Towards scalable real-world
web interaction with grounded language agents.Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 35:
20744–20757, 2022.
Shunyu Yao, Jeffrey Zhao, Dian Yu, Nan Du, Izhak Shafran, Karthik R. Narasimhan, and Yuan Cao.
React: Synergizing reasoning and acting in language models. InThe Eleventh International Conference
on Learning Representations, ICLR 2023, Kigali, Rwanda, May 1-5, 2023. OpenReview.net, 2023. URL
https://openreview.net/forum?id=WE vluYUL-X.
Guibin Zhang, Hejia Geng, Xiaohang Yu, Zhenfei Yin, Zaibin Zhang, Zelin Tan, Heng Zhou, Zhongzhi
Li, Xiangyuan Xue, Yijiang Li, Yifan Zhou, Yang Chen, Chen Zhang, Yutao Fan, Zihu Wang, Songtao
Huang, Yue Liao, Hongru Wang, Mengyue Yang, Heng Ji, Michael Littman, Jun Wang, Shuicheng
Yan, Philip Torr, and Lei Bai. The landscape of agentic reinforcement learning for llms: A survey.
CoRR, abs/2509.02547, 2025a. doi: 10.48550/ARXIV .2509.02547. URL https://doi.org/10.48550/
arXiv.2509.02547.
Yabo Zhang, Yihan Zeng, Qingyun Li, Zhen Hu, Kavin Han, and Wangmeng Zuo. Tool-r1: Sample-
efficient reinforcement learning for agentic tool use.CoRR, abs/2509.12867, 2025b. doi: 10.48550/
ARXIV .2509.12867. URLhttps://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2509.12867.
29